cloud: add the maintenance window doc (#13320)
pingcap/docs: tidb-cloud/configure-maintenance-window.md

---

> title: Configure Maintenance Window

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Configure a Maintenance Window
```

summary: Learn how to configure maintenance window for your cluster.
---

> # Configure Maintenance Window

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Configure a Maintenance Window
```

A maintenance window is a designated timeframe during which planned maintenance activities, such as operating system updates, security patches, and infrastructure upgrades, are performed automatically to ensure the reliability, security, and performance of the TiDB Cloud service.

During a maintenance window, the maintenance is executed on TiDB clusters one by one so the overall impact is minimal. Although there might be temporary connection disruptions or QPS fluctuations, the clusters remain available, and the existing data import, backup, restore, migration, and replication tasks can still run normally.

By configuring the maintenance window, you can easily schedule and manage maintenance activities to minimize the maintenance impact. For example, you can set the start time of the maintenance window to avoid peak hours of your application workloads.

> **Note:**
>
> - The maintenance window feature is only available for [Dedicated Tier clusters](/tidb-cloud/select-cluster-tier.md#dedicated-tier).

> > - If a TiDB Dedicated Tier cluster has only one TiDB node, it might be unavailable for a few minutes during maintenance.

Reviewer 2: Basically LGTM, but there's one point. Although the current description is fine, we think it has a significant impact. We actually want to remove this from the technical aspect to the description, and we are still discussing it internally. Ultimately, we don't want to mention that there are "a few minutes unavailable". Let's wait for our conclusion before we publish it. Otherwise, it would be better to remove the entire sentence before publishing.

## Allowed and disallowed operations during a maintenance window

During a maintenance window, some operations are allowed, while some are not.

- Allowed operations:

    - SQL operations
    - Create clusters
    - Delete clusters
    - Create backup tasks
    - Restore clusters
    - Access cluster pages  

- Disallowed operations:

    - Modify, pause, or resume clusters
    - Change security settings in the TiDB Cloud console
    - Create private links or configure VPC peering
    - Create import tasks, migration jobs, or changefeeds
    - Scale specifications of migration jobs or changefeeds

## Get notifications for maintenance activities

To avoid potential disruptions, it is important to be aware of the maintenance schedules and plan your operations accordingly.

For every maintenance window, TiDB Cloud sends three email notifications to all project members at the following time points:

> - 72 hours before the maintenance window starts
> - The time when the maintenance tasks are started
> - The time when the maintenance tasks are completed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- 72 hours before a maintenance window starts
- The time when a maintenance task is started
- The time when a maintenance task is completed
```

## View and configure maintenance windows

Regular maintenance ensures that essential updates are performed to safeguard TiDB Cloud from security threats, performance issues, and unreliability. Therefore, the maintenance window is enabled by default and cannot be disabled.

> For each maintenance activity, the default start time is 03:00 Wednesday (based on the time zone of your TiDB Cloud organization). You can modify the start time to your preferred time or defer maintenance activities until the deadline as follows:

Author: ```suggestion
If a maintenance window is scheduled in a week, the default start time is 03:00 Wednesday (based on the time zone of your TiDB Cloud organization). You can modify the start time to your preferred time or defer maintenance activities until the deadline as follows:
```

> If a maintenance window is planned for a week, the default start time of the window is 03:00 Wednesday (based on the time zone of your TiDB Cloud organization). You can modify the start time to your preferred time or defer maintenance activities until the deadline as follows:

Author: ```suggestion
Maintenance usually occurs once every few months. If a maintenance window is planned for a week, the default start time of the window is 03:00 Wednesday (based on the time zone of your TiDB Cloud organization). You can modify the start time to your preferred time or defer maintenance activities until the deadline as follows:
```

> Maintenance usually occurs once every few months. If a maintenance window is planned for a week, the default start time of the window is 03:00 Wednesday (based on the time zone of your TiDB Cloud organization). You can modify the start time to your preferred time or defer maintenance activities until the deadline as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Maintenance usually occurs once every few months. If a maintenance window is planned for a week, the default start time of the window is 03:00 Wednesday (based on the time zone of your TiDB Cloud organization). 

You can modify the start time to your preferred time or defer maintenance activities until the deadline as follows:
```

3. On the **Admin** page, click **Maintenance** in the left navigation pane.

     - If any maintenance activities are displayed, check the descriptions, scheduled start time, and deadline. The maintenance activities will start at the designated time.

     - If there is no maintenance data, it means no maintenance activity is scheduled recently.

> 4. (Optional) Click <svg width="15" height="15" viewBox="0 0 24 24" fill="none" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" class="mantine-1o1jehl"><path d="M11 3.99998H6.8C5.11984 3.99998 4.27976 3.99998 3.63803 4.32696C3.07354 4.61458 2.6146 5.07353 2.32698 5.63801C2 6.27975 2 7.11983 2 8.79998V17.2C2 18.8801 2 19.7202 2.32698 20.362C2.6146 20.9264 3.07354 21.3854 3.63803 21.673C4.27976 22 5.11984 22 6.8 22H15.2C16.8802 22 17.7202 22 18.362 21.673C18.9265 21.3854 19.3854 20.9264 19.673 20.362C20 19.7202 20 18.8801 20 17.2V13M7.99997 16H9.67452C10.1637 16 10.4083 16 10.6385 15.9447C10.8425 15.8957 11.0376 15.8149 11.2166 15.7053C11.4184 15.5816 11.5914 15.4086 11.9373 15.0627L21.5 5.49998C22.3284 4.67156 22.3284 3.32841 21.5 2.49998C20.6716 1.67156 19.3284 1.67155 18.5 2.49998L8.93723 12.0627C8.59133 12.4086 8.41838 12.5816 8.29469 12.7834C8.18504 12.9624 8.10423 13.1574 8.05523 13.3615C7.99997 13.5917 7.99997 13.8363 7.99997 14.3255V16Z" stroke="currentColor" stroke-width="2" stroke-linecap="round" stroke-linejoin="round"></path></svg> to modify the start time of the maintenance window. Note that the maintenance is executed at the specified start time only when there are maintenance activities.

Author: ```suggestion
4. (Optional) Click <svg width="15" height="15" viewBox="0 0 24 24" fill="none" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" class="mantine-1o1jehl"><path d="M11 3.99998H6.8C5.11984 3.99998 4.27976 3.99998 3.63803 4.32696C3.07354 4.61458 2.6146 5.07353 2.32698 5.63801C2 6.27975 2 7.11983 2 8.79998V17.2C2 18.8801 2 19.7202 2.32698 20.362C2.6146 20.9264 3.07354 21.3854 3.63803 21.673C4.27976 22 5.11984 22 6.8 22H15.2C16.8802 22 17.7202 22 18.362 21.673C18.9265 21.3854 19.3854 20.9264 19.673 20.362C20 19.7202 20 18.8801 20 17.2V13M7.99997 16H9.67452C10.1637 16 10.4083 16 10.6385 15.9447C10.8425 15.8957 11.0376 15.8149 11.2166 15.7053C11.4184 15.5816 11.5914 15.4086 11.9373 15.0627L21.5 5.49998C22.3284 4.67156 22.3284 3.32841 21.5 2.49998C20.6716 1.67156 19.3284 1.67155 18.5 2.49998L8.93723 12.0627C8.59133 12.4086 8.41838 12.5816 8.29469 12.7834C8.18504 12.9624 8.10423 13.1574 8.05523 13.3615C7.99997 13.5917 7.99997 13.8363 7.99997 14.3255V16Z" stroke="currentColor" stroke-width="2" stroke-linecap="round" stroke-linejoin="round"></path></svg> to modify the start time of the maintenance window. Note that the maintenance is executed at the specified start time only when there are scheduled maintenance activities in that week.
```

> 4. (Optional) Click <svg width="15" height="15" viewBox="0 0 24 24" fill="none" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" class="mantine-1o1jehl"><path d="M11 3.99998H6.8C5.11984 3.99998 4.27976 3.99998 3.63803 4.32696C3.07354 4.61458 2.6146 5.07353 2.32698 5.63801C2 6.27975 2 7.11983 2 8.79998V17.2C2 18.8801 2 19.7202 2.32698 20.362C2.6146 20.9264 3.07354 21.3854 3.63803 21.673C4.27976 22 5.11984 22 6.8 22H15.2C16.8802 22 17.7202 22 18.362 21.673C18.9265 21.3854 19.3854 20.9264 19.673 20.362C20 19.7202 20 18.8801 20 17.2V13M7.99997 16H9.67452C10.1637 16 10.4083 16 10.6385 15.9447C10.8425 15.8957 11.0376 15.8149 11.2166 15.7053C11.4184 15.5816 11.5914 15.4086 11.9373 15.0627L21.5 5.49998C22.3284 4.67156 22.3284 3.32841 21.5 2.49998C20.6716 1.67156 19.3284 1.67155 18.5 2.49998L8.93723 12.0627C8.59133 12.4086 8.41838 12.5816 8.29469 12.7834C8.18504 12.9624 8.10423 13.1574 8.05523 13.3615C7.99997 13.5917 7.99997 13.8363 7.99997 14.3255V16Z" stroke="currentColor" stroke-width="2" stroke-linecap="round" stroke-linejoin="round"></path></svg> to modify the start time of the maintenance window. Note that the maintenance is executed at the specified start time only when there are scheduled maintenance activities in that week.

Author: ```suggestion
4. (Optional) Click <svg width="15" height="15" viewBox="0 0 24 24" fill="none" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" class="mantine-1o1jehl"><path d="M11 3.99998H6.8C5.11984 3.99998 4.27976 3.99998 3.63803 4.32696C3.07354 4.61458 2.6146 5.07353 2.32698 5.63801C2 6.27975 2 7.11983 2 8.79998V17.2C2 18.8801 2 19.7202 2.32698 20.362C2.6146 20.9264 3.07354 21.3854 3.63803 21.673C4.27976 22 5.11984 22 6.8 22H15.2C16.8802 22 17.7202 22 18.362 21.673C18.9265 21.3854 19.3854 20.9264 19.673 20.362C20 19.7202 20 18.8801 20 17.2V13M7.99997 16H9.67452C10.1637 16 10.4083 16 10.6385 15.9447C10.8425 15.8957 11.0376 15.8149 11.2166 15.7053C11.4184 15.5816 11.5914 15.4086 11.9373 15.0627L21.5 5.49998C22.3284 4.67156 22.3284 3.32841 21.5 2.49998C20.6716 1.67156 19.3284 1.67155 18.5 2.49998L8.93723 12.0627C8.59133 12.4086 8.41838 12.5816 8.29469 12.7834C8.18504 12.9624 8.10423 13.1574 8.05523 13.3615C7.99997 13.5917 7.99997 13.8363 7.99997 14.3255V16Z" stroke="currentColor" stroke-width="2" stroke-linecap="round" stroke-linejoin="round"></path></svg> to modify the start time of the maintenance window. Note that the maintenance will be performed at the specified start time only if there is a scheduled maintenance activity planned for that week.
```

> 5. To defer the start time of a scheduled maintenance activity, click **Defer** in the **Action** column and change it to the next feasible window before the deadline.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. To defer the start time of a scheduled maintenance activity, click **Defer** in the **Action** column and change it to the next feasible maintenance window before the deadline.
```

    If you need to defer the maintenance activity beyond the deadline, contact [TiDB Cloud Support](/tidb-cloud/tidb-cloud-support.md#tidb-cloud-support) for assistance.

## FAQs

- What are maintenance activities?

    Maintenance activities typically include operating system updates, security patches, and infrastructure upgrades.

- How often does maintenance occur?

    Maintenance is infrequent, usually occurring once every few months. The maintenance activities will be displayed on the **Maintenance** page several days before the scheduled time and you will receive an email notification 72 hours in advance, allowing you to make necessary preparations.

- Can I disable a maintenance window?

>     The maintenance window is enabled by default and cannot be disabled. You can modify the start time of the maintenance window or defer a maintenance activity to 2 to 4 weeks until the deadline. For more information, see [View and configure maintenance windows](#view-and-configure-maintenance-windows).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    No. The maintenance window is enabled by default and cannot be disabled. You can modify the start time of the maintenance window or defer a maintenance activity to 2 to 4 weeks until the deadline. For more information, see [View and configure maintenance windows](#view-and-configure-maintenance-windows).
```

- How long does a maintenance window last?

>     For each project, maintenance is executed on eligible TiDB clusters one by one. The duration of maintenance varies depending on the number of clusters, cluster data size, and the maintenance activities to be performed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    It depends. For each project, maintenance is executed on eligible TiDB clusters one by one. The duration of maintenance varies depending on the number of clusters, cluster data size, and the maintenance activities to be performed.
```

- Will maintenance activities be performed on clusters in any status?

>     No. TiDB Cloud will check the cluster status before performing a maintenance activity on a cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    No. TiDB Cloud checks the cluster status before performing a maintenance activity on a cluster.
```

    - If the cluster is in the **Creating** or **Paused** status, maintenance activities are not required.

>     - If the cluster is in the **Backup** status, the maintenance will be delayed and triggered until the current backup is successfully completed. Note that for clusters with large data volumes, the backup process might take a long time, such as 12 hours. To minimize the impact on the clusters, it is recommended to carefully set the start time for backups and the maintenance window.

Reviewer 3: “If the cluster is in the Backup status”：Cluster has no Backup status . it is possible to say that the cluster is currently running a backup task.

>     - If the cluster is in the **Backup** status, the maintenance will be delayed and triggered until the current backup is successfully completed. Note that for clusters with large data volumes, the backup process might take a long time, such as 12 hours. To minimize the impact on the clusters, it is recommended to carefully set the start time for backups and the maintenance window.

Author: ```suggestion
    - If the cluster is running a daily or manual backup, the maintenance will be delayed and triggered until the current backup is successfully completed. Note that for clusters with large data volumes, the backup process might take a long time, such as 12 hours. To minimize the impact on the clusters, it is recommended to carefully set the start time for backups and the maintenance window.
```

By configuring the maintenance window, you can easily schedule and manage maintenance activities to minimize the maintenance impact. For example, you can set the start time of the maintenance window to avoid peak hours of your application workloads.

> **Note:**
>
> - The maintenance window feature is only available for [Dedicated Tier clusters](/tidb-cloud/select-cluster-tier.md#dedicated-tier).
> - If a TiDB Dedicated Tier cluster has only one TiDB node, it might be unavailable for a few minutes during maintenance.

## Allowed and disallowed operations during a maintenance window

During a maintenance window, some operations are allowed, while some are not.

- Allowed operations:

    - SQL operations
    - Create clusters
    - Delete clusters
    - Create backup tasks
    - Restore clusters
    - Access cluster pages  

- Disallowed operations:

    - Modify, pause, or resume clusters
    - Change security settings in the TiDB Cloud console
    - Create private links or configure VPC peering
    - Create import tasks, migration jobs, or changefeeds
    - Scale specifications of migration jobs or changefeeds

>     

Author: ```suggestion
```

## Get notifications for maintenance activities

To avoid potential disruptions, it is important to be aware of the maintenance schedules and plan your operations accordingly.

For every maintenance window, TiDB Cloud sends three email notifications to all project members at the following time points:

- 72 hours before the maintenance window starts
- The time when the maintenance tasks are started
- The time when the maintenance tasks are completed

## View and configure maintenance windows

Regular maintenance ensures that essential updates are performed to safeguard TiDB Cloud from security threats, performance issues, and unreliability. Therefore, the maintenance window is enabled by default and cannot be disabled.

> For each maintenance activity, the default start time is 03:00 Wednesday (based on the time zone of your project). You can modify the start time to your preferred time or defer maintenance activities until the deadline as follows:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
For each maintenance activity, the default start time is 03:00 Wednesday (based on the time zone of your TiDB Cloud organization). You can modify the start time to your preferred time or defer maintenance activities until the deadline as follows:
```

5. To defer the start time of a scheduled maintenance activity, click **Defer** in the **Action** column and change it to the next feasible window before the deadline.

    If you need to defer the maintenance activity beyond the deadline, contact [TiDB Cloud Support](/tidb-cloud/tidb-cloud-support.md#tidb-cloud-support) for assistance.

## FAQs

- What are maintenance activities?

    Maintenance activities typically include operating system updates, security patches, and infrastructure upgrades.

- How often does maintenance occur?

>     Maintenance is infrequent, usually occurring once every few months. The maintenance activities will be displayed on the **Maintenance** page several days before the deadline and you will receive an email notification 72 hours in advance, allowing you to make necessary preparations.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    Maintenance is infrequent, usually occurring once every few months. The maintenance activities will be displayed on the **Maintenance** page several days before the scheduled time and you will receive an email notification 72 hours in advance, allowing you to make necessary preparations.
```

---
title: Configure Maintenance Window
summary: Learn how to configure maintenance window for your cluster.
---

# Configure Maintenance Window

A maintenance window is a designated timeframe during which planned maintenance activities, such as operating system updates, security patches, and infrastructure upgrades, are performed automatically to ensure the reliability, security, and performance of the TiDB Cloud service.

During a maintenance window, the maintenance is executed on TiDB clusters one by one so the overall impact is minimal. Although there might be temporary connection disruptions or QPS fluctuations, the clusters remain available, and the existing data import, backup, restore, migration, and replication tasks can still run normally.

By configuring the maintenance window, you can easily schedule and manage maintenance activities to minimize the maintenance impact. For example, you can set the start time of the maintenance window to avoid peak hours of your application workloads.

> **Note:**
>

> > - The maintenance window feature is only available for [Dedicated Tier clusters](/tidb-cloud/select-cluster-tier.md#dedicated-tier).
> > - If a TiDB Dedicated Tier cluster has only one TiDB node, it might be unavailable for a few minutes during maintenance.

Author: ```suggestion
> The maintenance window feature is only available for [Dedicated Tier clusters](/tidb-cloud/select-cluster-tier.md#dedicated-tier).
```
